blog post: Local-first with your existing API. (#2006)
electric-sql/electric: website/blog/posts/2024-11-21-local-first-with-your-existing-api.md

For example, REST APIs are stateless. We know how to scale them. They show up in the browser console. We know how to debug them. Swapping them out is all very well in theory, but what happens with your new fangled sync system when it goes down in production? Is that a black box you know how to poke at?

### Electric's approach

At Electric, our mission is to make sync and local-first adoptable for mainstream software. So, one of the main challenges we've focused on is how to use Electric with your existing software stack.

This is why we work with [any data model](/docs/guides/deployment#data-model-compatibility) in [any standard Postgres](/docs/guides/deployment#_1-running-postgres), allow you to sync data into anything from a [JavaScript object](/docs/api/clients/typescript#shape) to a [local database](/product/pglite) and focus on providing [composable primitives](/blog/2024/07/17/electric-next) that work with your existing stack.

> As a result, with Electric, you can develop local-first apps incrementally, using your existing API. So you get the benefits of super snappy apps that feel instant to use, collaborative, multi-user sync, local, offline data access for reads and writes and locally encrypted data for security and privacy.

Reviewer: adding some concrete examples of people adopting electric incrementally would help e.g.:
- trigger.dev adding real-time SDK
- ottogrid swapping out loading sheet data to use electric
- team that shipped live notifications

anywhere that you need real-time or want to load mbs of data — syncing makes a big diff & you can cherry-pick specific types of data or screens to convert first.

---
title: Local-first with your existing API
description: >-
  How to develop local-first apps incrementally, using your existing API.
excerpt: >-
  Local-first is often seen as eliminating your API. But what if you like
  your API or need to keep it because of other code paths and integrations?
  This post shows how you can develop local-first apps incrementally,
  using your existing API.
authors: [thruflo]
image: /img/blog/local-first-with-your-existing-api/humble-toaster.jpg
tags: [local-first example]
outline: [2, 3]
post: true
---

<script setup>
  import BrowserConsolePNG from '/static/img/blog/browser-console.png?url'
  import NoStaleDataJGP from '/static/img/blog/no-stale-data.jpg?url'
</script>

<div class="warning custom-block github-alert">
  <p style="margin-bottom: 10px">
    With Electric, you can develop local-first apps incrementally,
    using your existing API. <span class="no-wrap">Jump ahead to see</span> <a href="#how-it-works">how it works</a> or read on for more context.
  </p>
</div>

> One of the exciting things about [local-first software](/use-cases/local-first-software) is the potential to eliminate APIs and microservices. Instead of coding across the network, you code against a local store, data syncs in the background and your stack is suddenly much simpler.

Reviewer: make this third person? 

```suggestion
One reason many people are exciting about [local-first software](/use-cases/local-first-software) is the potential to eliminate APIs and microservices. Instead of coding across the network, you code against a local store, data syncs in the background and your stack is suddenly much simpler.
```
